- [Tim] Alright, so in the last video,
we created this code that
actually copied a file
and we can see that the file1.txt there
got copied correctly to file1copy.txt,
but I wanna show you what happens
if we actually run it again
and we're gonna make a
change to the IOException.
What we'll do is instead
of putting the StackTrace,
let's actually just print out the message,
so e.getMessage.
The other thing, just before
I run it just to confirm,
we've got file1.txt
and file1copy.txt, so you
can see they are in fact,
they do have the same content,
so it was a proper copy in that sense.
Right, so this time we
should at the moment
with the way we've configured
things, get an Exception,
because the file already exists.
So, let's actually run that
and see that that does happen.
There you can see the
Exception was thrown,
Examples/file1copy.txt was
the actual e.getMessage
from the Exception that
was actually generated
and the reason for that is
that the destination file,
the copy already exists and by default,
the Copy method then throws
an Exception, if that happens.
But fortunately, we can change that.
If you want the file to be copied,
even when the destination
file already exists,
you can pass an optional third
parameter to the Copy method,
so let's actually do that.
Up here on line 14, we'll
pass the third parameter
StandardCopyOption.REPLACE_EXISTING.
Now, if we run that again, we should avoid
the Execution block being executed,
the Exception block, I should say,
and now we haven't got
any errors on the screen
and any that the file copy
successfully went through,
when the file got replaced
and we didn't get the message printing out
in the Exception block of code,
'cause of course there
wasn't an Exception.
Now, the other thing you can do is
you can actually copy
directories, as well as files,
using the Copy method.
So, let's have a go at
actually doing that instead.
We're gonna come down after that code
and we're gonna put source file,
well, actually what we'll
do is we'll put that here
after the Copy method,
we'll put it in the block,
because that's where we've
defined our path source file
and copy file, so we'll
put sourceFile is equal to
FileSystems.getDefault.getPath
then we're gonna type
in Examples as the path
and you can see in the
left project window,
we've got the Examples folder,
that we created in the last video,
so I'm gonna put the
getPath will be Examples,
that's the first argument
and the second argument,
or parameter will be Dir1.
So we're basically trying to copy,
the source file is the directory Dir1,
which is a subfolder of
the Examples directory.
And the destination, we're
gonna do copyFile equals
FileSystems.getDefault.getPath,
we're gonna go with Examples,
this time we're gonna do Dir4
and you can see over here
that we've got Dir1 and Dir2
and we've got a Dir3 subfolder,
but we've actually got
nothing at that level
at all that's relating to Dir4.
And then we'll just...
copy this code here and paste it,
'cause that's gonna do
exactly the same thing,
but this time it's going
to copy that Dir1 folder
into the Dir4 folder.
Let's actually try running it.
And you can see over here,
I've got the Dir4 folder
was successfully created
from that operation,
but note that the actual
files weren't copied,
so you can see that there's no way
for me to navigate into that folder,
because there isn't any files
and we're obviously getting
this disclosure triangle on my Mac,
if there are files in that folder.
So, it's actually expected by
default for it not to do that.
When you wanna copy a
directory and all the files
and directories it contains,
you have to actually walk the file tree
and we'll be talking about
that in a future video
in this section of the
course, how to do that.
But by default, when we're copying,
it copies just the folders only.
I'm gonna delete Dir4, since
we won't need that anymore.
But as another option,
instead of copying a file,
you may wanna move it to
another directory or rename it
and you can do that using
the Files.move method.
So let's have a go at doing this.
We'll just move the Examples/file1copy.
It's this one here, that we created.
Move that to the Examples/Dir1 folder,
move it into this folder here.
So, what we're going to do is
comment out the existing code,
so that's not run each time,
'cause that file of course already exists.
Comment that out
and let's put this at the top of the try
and we'll put path
fileToMove is equal to
FileSystems.getDefault.getPath
and we'll go Examples as the main folder
and then file1copy being
the file that we wanna copy.
Notice the capitalization
etc. is important here
to get it exactly the same, as you can see
over in the left-hand project window.
That's PathToMove and the destination
Path destination equals
FileSystems.getDefault.getPath.
We're gonna move that into
the Examples subfolder
and then Dir1 folder, which is a subfolder
from the Examples folder
and we're gonna use
the same filename, file1copy.txt
and then we just do Files.move
FileToMove, destination
and we'll leave the
Exception code in there,
in case we get an error.
Alright, so we should see
that that will appear,
that file will appear
in the Dir1 subfolder
of the Examples folder.
We'll run that
and we can see over here, file1copy.txt
appears in the Dir1 folder
and note that you have to specify
the full path of the destination,
that's down here on line 13.
It's not enough to only
specify the directory.
And note also that this
was a move, by the way,
I didn't make that clear,
so file1copy is now in the
Dir1 folder, but of course,
it's also moved from where it was,
which was in the Examples
folder down there,
when we did the initial copy.
So that was a move, but if
you wanted to rename a file,
then you can just use the new filename
and the destination path, as follows.
So, let's actually do that.
What I'll do first is comment this out.
You don't want that to run again,
because the source file no longer exists.
So I'll put Path fileToMove,
actually what I'll do, let's
just undo that change I made
and we'll just change the locations.
Now this time, I'm going
to specify file1.txt
and let's just say I wanna rename that.
What I'll do is I'll get
rid of this second argument,
because we're gonna keep
it in the same folder
and we'll call it file2.txt.
So basically in this
case, what we're doing is
we're going to rename
file1.txt to file2.txt.
We're effectively moving
it into a new filename,
which is the equivalent of the rename,
because it's actually moving,
which in essence is actually renaming.
If we run this,
we've now got file2.txt
from the Examples folder.
Now when renaming a file,
the source and destination
directories have to be the same
and just to confirm that,
let's actually just run this again.
So, I'm just going back
and I'll rename that,
I can refactor that, rename,
change it back to file1.txt again
and just try running it again.
You can see here file1, so
let's actually make that file2
and that's what I was
trying to do, file2.txt,
so you can see there has been renamed.
What I am going to do though,
I'm gonna still need to use that file,
so I'm going to refactor it again,
rename and move that back to,
calling it file1.txt again
and I'll just comment out those lines,
so that move or that rename
doesn't happen again.
Now just as with the Copy method,
you can actually pass
the standard Copy option
.REPLACE_EXISTING as a third parameter,
if you wanna move a file to
a file that already exists.
An example of when you'd
want to do this might be
when your application
uses temporary files,
until the user explicitly asks to save.
You then wanna move the temp
file to the permanent file
and that file may already
exist, if the user is working on
a file that they've saved before.
Now you can also use the
Move method with a directory,
but depending on the operating system,
it might not actually work
for empty directories,
which of course isn't very useful.
Alright, so at this point,
we don't actually need
this file1copy.txt file anymore,
so it's time to delete it.
Now, as you may have guessed,
you can use the Files.delete
method to do this.
So, we've commented out all the code,
so make sure you do
that before you do this
and moving forward for
the rest of this video,
make sure you do comment out the code
before you run it each time,
'cause we're making changes to
files, or deleting them, etc.
So to delete a file, file,
so it's gonna be Path,
fileToDelete is equal to
FileSystems.getDefault.getPath
we'll go for Examples as the main folder,
subfolder second argument Dir1,
third argument being the
filename file1copy.txt
and you guessed it
Files.delete fileToDelete.
That's literally it.
We should see the
file1copy.txt get deleted.
And it's deleted, as you can see there.
Now if we run this again at
this point, that deleted file,
you should get the Exception
code block showing,
so we're getting a message
there, which at this stage,
the e.getMessage from the Exception
is just giving us the name of
the file, which in this case,
doesn't exist, because
we've already deleted it.
But what we can do to avoid an Exception
if a file doesn't exist is,
instead of using Files.delete,
we can put Files.delete,
but call another method
deleteIfExists.
Now, you can probably guess
what that actually does,
so if we run that again now,
you can see we no longer get an error,
but in this case the file doesn't exist.
If we actually just
take a copy of this file
and call it file1copy.txt
and now if we run this code again,
you can see it's deleted the file.
So either way, we're not
getting an Exception anymore.
So, that's a good method
to use if you don't want
an Exception to be thrown
if the file doesn't exist.
Now, you can use the ToDelete
method to delete directories,
but they have to be empty.
Now once again, when
dealing with directories,
you have to walk the file tree
and again, we'll be doing
that in a future video
in this section of the course.
Now let's end the video here.
In the next video, we're
gonna actually start looking
at creating files, how to go about that.
So, I'll see you in the next video.